**Interactive Observation**

I observed the interaction between the new water machines and some students. The machine’s idea is great: it collects the humidity in the air and turns it into water. The design is minimalistic, just a white box with a small set of buttons and a place for a bottle; there is also a sticker with instructions and the famous “plug and play” written all over it. On the whole it is a great idea, however, there is a flaw that inhibits the interactions with people. It is very very slow, and the button is hard to press and has to be pressed again every 20 seconds. That means that in order to fill up a water bottle of 750ml you have to press it 4-5 times, sometimes more, and for bigger bottles it is even worse. Due to this slowness the interactions with it are very hard and unpleasant. 

One person coming out of the library tried to get some water, they stood there for two presses of the button and left with a disappointed face and an empty water bottle. The next one used the occasion to talk to a friend/acquaintance while keeping the button constantly pressed, which limited the interaction with the other person and it wasn’t very engaging, so they were left alone to fill up the whole thing. There was a person staring at it, and another one just staring into space while waiting. 

This interaction is very weird in our digital world, as we are used to fast feedback and small loading times. I think these machines are under-utilised because of these properties they have. Additionally buttons aren’t used in almost anything as we are usually on our phones, and toggles are what is used instead. Although the machine is cool and sustainable, it doesn’t actually serve its purpose because of these design flaws. I am quite fascinated and entertained by this. I cannot imagine the creators didn’t realise these issues, so I am guessing the button is used so that no water is wasted and the slowness is just due to the machinery. However, even with these benefits of doubt I wouldn’t want to put anybody in the position of this interaction, so I wonder, why do we have so many?
